This project started as a hack-a-thon topic at the bicoastal datafest at Columbia University. The origin entry is here - 
https://sites.google.com/site/bicoastaldatafest/projects/visualizing-industry-contributions-state-vs-federal

Visualizing industry contributions: state vs. federal

Team CJOT
Members:
Manav Malhotra
Blake Rego
Charles McMillan
Chet Rastogi

Location: Columbia 

We are interested in providing an interactive visualization of the location of campaign contribution by industries and individual companies. We want to look at the difference between contributions to state and federal level elections. We believe certain industries will have more of an interest in state level politics (when contracts and regulations are determined on the local level) while others in federal. This visualization will help us see where industry priorities lie. 

We also hope this tool will be the basis for future analysis. For example, a next step would be to link the location of corporate donations to representatives who have voted on legislation relevant to that industry or company. 

User input:
Company
Date range
Output:
Three chloropleth maps of the US:
Federal senate
Federal house 
State (aggregate)
which display contributions to each party.


The user can choose a custom date range to look at the time leading up to a bill proposal or an election cycle. Our next steps are to provide more details on hover of each district/state before doing a real analysis linking legislation to these maps. 

Site: http://morning-fjord-7727.herokuapp.com

Process:
Based on user input we query the Sunlight API for campaign contributions which match those parameters
The returned json is parsed by party and location (district or sate depending on the seat type)
The results are plotted on a chloropleth map using d3
On hover the real value amounts are shown 


Data sources: Sunlight API

Prize Categories: Potential, Insight